which fabric is named after French city
of NIEM the answer at the end of the
show welcome back to lateral and this is
the first elimination match at the end
of this game one of these two teams is
going to be going home
let's meet them we start with team Pinky
and the brain I'm Lizzy I'm a Minecraft
youtuber and it turns out I'm not Pinky
and the brain
I'm just pinky hi I'm Joel turns out I
might be the brain still not sure about
that though and I also make Minecraft
YouTube videos it was pretty close in
your last match what have you learned
what are you gonna do differently I
don't think we're gonna do much
differently we're just going to try and
answer the questions correctly this time
it's always a good strategy playing
against you today we have I have to
remember that this is team Terminator
which which you picked purely to not be
yeah it was it was a cruel childhood
nickname because I was at Primary School
when the Terminator films came out and
you don't get called Arnie without a
gang that is please introduce yourself
I'm dr. Kate Arnie I'm a science writer
broadcaster and older sister of yeah
Helen Arnie I am a comedian I'm
one-third of the science comedy group
festival spoken ed and I'm her younger
sister if it says anything about how I
would be at this game I have only just
realized the connection between Arnie
and team Terminator when you spelled it
out there yeah so let's go with
marijuana
round one is deep thought there are six
lateral thinking questions in this round
and six seconds on the clock for each of
them the earlier you buzz in the more
points you'll get but if you wait I will
be giving you clues every 15 seconds so
if you're already first question goes to
you guys and we start now
which animal most commonly brown in
color and seen in December has four legs
three heads and two hearts - I was free
heads I may be in another way big mate
it's not maybe it's not in a live animal
in December Christmas maybe Christmas or
reindeers don't have three heads oh no
they don't never do it has two main
working parts wait it's definitely an
animal it is an unmanned success you
should about usually brown not
necessarily brown we might need to wait
for an Oracle yeah cuz I have lit you
know I do it often makes people laugh it
would do if it has three heads
it's not the dog from Harry Potter
that's the only thing I can think all
with three heads and it's not doctor hey
no I have no idea it's not an animal as
such an animal
like like a collection of animals now
[Music]
gone Rudolph Rudolph
sorry sadly there was not a three-headed
Rudolph guarding the the dike I've not
actually seen Harry Potter so I don't
know well that's up to these guys it's
that it's our favorite childhood game to
play pantomime horse hunter mine horse
for one point it has two working parts
the forelegs are four people in it the
three heads are the one of the horse
costume and the two people inside the
two hearts so that's one point to team
Terminator our next question to you as
well
in 1991 New Scientist reported that a
free phone number ending 1 2 3 5 8 Oh
would feature in a new advertising
campaign what was the number 4
I mean question number one is how do
they know my pin number a free phone
number ending one two three five eight
okay okay genuinely it's not my pin
number anymore this was in the days
before googling phone numbers was eating
so it spelled out T 1 2 3 5 8 oh spells
out of T that's why I used to use it you
have phone codes to bring our parents
like free fungus that was my free phone
code this wouldn't work on old-style
rotary phones yes so it just had yellow
pages he you think it's the other page
we're sorting something beginning with T
or it's to tell people no ability is it
about it was to help people reach a
vital nighttime service easily what's a
nighttime service it begins with T
bringing you tea in the morning Oh trees
and trees that is time any guesses from
over here
God guess telephone taxi
late night taxi service you had the T
it's designed so if you're drunk you can
just spell out a T on your phone keypad
and it will get attacked
sadly no points there our next question
is over to you in the 17th century
French sailors used petitions as a form
of mutiny if they were unhappy with
conditions on board how did they write
their signatures on the petition so that
nobody could be accused of instigating
the rebellion right so it's got to be
anonymous kind of how can I do an
anonymous signature
do the X that honor but I would because
I work just right X's in one place Roger
pirates too much I think
no people right X when they a
traditional list would have cast
suspicion on the first person wallet
they could have yeah maybe like they
just it was instead of one long line it
was just a scramble try yeah for three
points well they wrote it just randomly
on the page rather than in a list
no that would still be someone at the
top of that list who will get the cues
so the question restarts run abuzz
immediately you can get three points log
around some kind of cylinder yes for
three points it was it was a circular
bit of paper but yes I accept cylinder
that's three points to you and you get
the next question take a look at this in
order which compass directions are
represented by these hieroglyphs
okay that's nuts so um where does the
wind most prevalently blow in Egypt and
blowing from west to east is that oh
it's in anyway the seasons enabled
year-round Trump
and so oh well the rudder or thing has
to be against the no exact with the tide
well I'm assuming this is in Egypt right
so hieroglyphs represent what is
happening in Egypt the Nile world was
important to the Egyptians
so like a nice both yes from there and
up to the north so it's the second one
flowing with the with the tide and it's
just steering and the first one alright
for two points I think the first one is
I'm using now because it's against the
tide and the other one's going north cuz
it's flowing with the tide and it's just
got a little rudder to steer it is
correct two points right exactly that
reason
did you absolutely right so that is two
points last two questions in this round
are on the buzzer so open to both teams
let's see if we can get you off the mark
the Wikipedia article for this
eight-letter word is illustrated by a
non-dairy Vidal sculpture of Cain after
killing Abel since its coining in 2006
numerous stockbrokers sports fans and
even the famous sci-fi character have
been associated with this action at
certain moments it was given its own
unicode emoji in 2016
name the word okay well it can't be
sexting because that's only seven
letters no emojis famous Wi-Fi cat
services stockbrokers sports
is it something in isn't it and it's not
killing it's a word of regret no I don't
know I was thinking spark fingers but I
reread the question yeah I definitely
don't think it's that it involves two
parts of the body parts of the body you
don't regret doing that I think three
points
I think it's facepalm you are correct
a sci-fi character is jean-luc Picard
you're absolutely right got his two
points last question in this round in
1997 a cable company in Racine Wisconsin
offered free t-shirts in a television
advert during a break in a major
pay-per-view boxing match the advert was
scrambled or encoded in such a way their
customers would not be able to see it
why
because they want to give away the
t-shirts Oh free t-shirts free t-shirt
so search maybe boxing has something to
say it was deliberate that the customers
couldn't see both the customers can't
see it but Oh was it the it was a rival
Network when the t-shirts were sent out
the company sent something else with
them with a like um like a matter doing
magic I three the glasses or something
like that whether they had to yeah a
mirror right it was the mine disease
yeah the company caught six people for
something maybe they're like don't pay
for cable or something wait for one
point you can only see the advert if you
don't pay for your cable exactly right
you are off the mark you've got the
point they were catching cable pirates
because we were pirating the signal it
would decrypt only the cable boxes they
had wouldn't show it to you so if you
send off your free t-shirt you were
pirating cable and they sent the police
I don't know if they sent the free
t-shirt as well so at the end of that
round team Terminator eight points team
pinky you're off the mark you've got one
better than we thought we do
the second round is second thought
you're gonna see a board of 12 numbers
you're gonna pick one number in turn and
reveal the clue that's behind it all
those clues point to one specific thing
I need to know what that thing is and
it's got to be for everything even the
clues you haven't seen yet you are going
to take the first one off the first
board
pick a number nine number nine requires
one cube sugar is a lovely idea not what
I've got take a number
yeah let's get Evan number seven said to
be a morality tale the hare and the
tortoise one of them lives in a cube
what is it is not the hare and the
tortoise team pinky 1111 sometimes seen
on playgrounds four points at the
climbing frame no not what I've got so
let's go to up number two yeah
reptiles are bad well I think that is a
moral judgment that is unacceptable in
this context yes absolutely right when I
was growing up I had a snakes and
ladders set on the ladders there was a
kid doing a good deed on snakes there
was a kid doing something naughty
apparently that's that's a thing yeah
but come on the naughty ones had way
more far and you got to slide down the
snakes I know you also get the first
choice off the next board ten ten go ten
number ten vibration hmm okay so put
aside the first thing you physics gonna
say no it's not so I'm gonna hand this
over team pinky pick another number one
number one most need a stick gaming
controller is not it's a lovely gasps
it's not what I've got seven seven over
seven don't I mean are we just picking
the rude ones or is is that they always
I don't know what you mean I need an
answer
no no I'm handing this out no poker no
six number six comes in kits I was
thinking like a car but then not anymore
come kids coming cars cars coming kids
yeah
a car a car no so forth three points no
I mean one I'm thinking who's kit but
secondly we should choose a number four
number four in his drums yes it is drums
you're absolutely right a drum kit Wow
there are a lot of worse options out
there
Wow three points his thankfully drum so
team pinky first one's yours eight
number eight tight rump you guess Oh bat
it acrobatics no I'm gonna hand it back
over ten number ten on a country border
mm I can I do a guess yeah you're not
gonna be upset with me
no you guessed like you were when there
was no time I think it's Niagara Falls
and you're right for five points do you
know why I knew that because our other
sister that we don't talk about lives
near Niagara Falls she's like our
special pixie that gives us answers I
mean it's a strategy certainly but your
matter your magic pixie has got you five
points which gives you a commanding lead
but there is still one question left and
it's your first pick you're forgiven
everything you've ever given right
everything number six today before
yesterday goodness a holiday but no it's
it's not Monday so honey's over possible
five points pick a number
1111 X is the shortest
no no not taking that so we've got five
left on our guessing list pick number
three number three can be medical
medical rays x-rays no not what I've got
so for four points pick a number two
number two first English one in 1604 I
think they've got it we need to get this
now quickly absol Izzy go for it yeah
that's right I don't think it's Thursday
I'm gonna
need notes from you light light is not
what I've got so for three points pick a
number 5 number 5 slightly different in
the u.s. it is a dictionary for 3 points
it's the dictionary ah today comes
before yesterday in alphabetical order
in the dictionary exes and shortest
section and that is the end of the round
and the scores are 23 1
the last round is quick thought both
teams gonna have 90 seconds thinking
time but because you're in the lead we
only give you five extra seconds for
each point you're in the lead you have a
twenty two point advantage that
translates to three minutes and twenty
on your clock and one minute thirty on
yours now that is gonna be difficult to
make up particularly because your clock
starts counting first but I know from
rehearsals and open tests it can be done
so very best of luck to you
buzzing correctly your clock will stop
and it'll go over to your opponents
buzzing incorrectly ten seconds away in
your clock restarts okay perhaps not too
careful best of luck your time starts
now what was the first product
advertised on the UK's newest television
station Channel five on the 30th of
March 1997 well I wasn't alive I was a
baby so it's one of the world's most
famous brands Oh God
ain't clean no they don't advertise
drugs and toothpaste it's like
cigarettes
maybe Channel five was a very apt choice
gosh because they what year was it 1957
I think okay it's very close to Channel
five
yes yes channel poor no it isn't that's
ten seconds away it's Chanel number five
you have 44 seconds left
which soft drink brand launched a
version called dnl in 2002 d do
coca-cola only the L was in capital
letters to D and L do not know the
slogan was turn your thirst upside down
7up yes is exactly right three minutes
pointing on your clock who can you write
to using the official Royal Mail
postcode xm4 5hq yes yes it spells out
Xmas HQ twenty point two seconds on a
clock in 2015 Sanrio
revealed that which character was an
English school girl with a surname white
I don't know anything I don't know hello
kitty hello kitty is Khurana three
minutes 15 which gardener got his famous
nickname because he often told his
clients their land was capable of
improving Wow is correct 10.1 seconds
ribose nigra is the latin name for which
fruit I need an answer now blackberry
correct black go into oh my god I have
to take your first answer I am so sorry
you are absolutely right it's
blackcurrant because Ribena happiness
it's spelled out with that and you don't
have 10 seconds to giveaway off your
clock I'm afraid so that means today's
winners are team terminator
congratulations to you commiserations
team think you put up a very valiant
effort but that was just not a
surmountable itself commiserations to
you congratulations to you and we'll see
you next time on lateral
[Music]
in the air